hello i'm alex from e2 language and in
this video i have a very special guest
joining me to talk about the e2 ielts
topic
toolkits hello graeme hi there alex
great to be here
and talking about our wonderful topic
toolkits i know our little pet
project um can you start by telling the
people who don't know you a little bit
about your background in ielts and with
e2 language
yeah for sure well i've been in ielts
for
for many years longer than i care to
remember
and a teacher and teacher trainer as
well
and with e2 language now for getting on
for three years i think
and uh yeah so that's that's basically
where i'm where i'm coming from at the
moment yeah
and you're one of our live class
teachers a lot of students would know
you from those sessions and also one of
our
tutors as well one-on-one tutor and do
you take the speaking mock tests
yes i in fact that's the most popular
one at the moment i do a lot of speaking
mock tests it's great it's very good
very very much like the ielts test
actually it's very well very well
designed and i think
it's it works very well for people i get
some good feedback yeah
yeah it's a good it's a good way to do
it and you don't have to leave home
which is even better at this time
that's right that's right okay so let's
talk about the e2 ielts topic toolkits
which is a project that we were working
on for
a number of months wasn't it um i think
last year we started this project
and shared it around so why don't we
start by talking about for those who
haven't seen the toolkits what what is
an e2 ielts topic
toolkit well it's a good question
um well i guess we could first start by
saying it's something to help
anybody who wants to do more about their
vocabulary because they're finding that
maybe in the speaking they don't have
enough words they can't
express their ideas in their writing
they're scratching their head and
thinking
how am i going to express these great
ideas that i've got
yeah yeah i think that's where it was
sort of born
wasn't it with students asking often
students would ask can i have a
list of vocabulary like just give me a
list of
words and we felt like that's sort of
it's okay so we did include a list of
words in the toolkit but
we know from experience that people
download a list or print it out
and that's the end of it nothing ever
happens with that list so we
created the list to also be personalized
we have a spot in there for
your own example of of a word with that
sentence also a translation into your
language as well
but it's more than just a list of vocab
so we should start by saying there are
toolkits available each one
based on a theme like a common ielts
theme can you remember all 20
i'm just kidding are you probably
but things like the environment um the
media
science technology technology yeah
environment yeah all those hot topics
space is a good one i enjoyed working on
that it was great
so in addition to the the word list what
else can we get in the topic toolkit
okay so so basically the top toolkit is
really
trying to help you to expand your
vocabulary have more words to
say to use um in
all of the four skills in ielts so
depending on whether you're
focusing on your speaking your writing
you're reading or you're listening
there's a lot in there to help you
so um essay topics speaking questions
um and the resource section which is
probably the the
best thing which is that little curated
zone
with reading listening and videos
all based on that topic so it's a really
rich
little resource for people to build
ideas as well i think that's that's
another aspect of it when i write an
essay i always google it i google
something beforehand like i read
something or watch something
and it just gives me a couple of really
good ideas that i can then
you know stretch out so it's yeah it's a
really valuable tool
particularly for writing and speaking i
reckon i i think that's a really good
point you made because when i was
kind of researching for the links you
know to be
sites like ted for example or um
all sorts of news sites and podcasts and
so on
i i wished i'd had longer just to sit
and watch and listen to them all
but i thought wow this is great and it's
all on the theme of that particular
topic toolkit so you're getting
input with all sorts of vocabulary
you've got in visual inputs as well
so it's really helping you to build the
whole world of that
theme which you can then practice with
speaking and writing
well let me show um firstly where they
are
in the course and then i'll show an
example of one as well
log in to your ielts course at
e2language.com or sign up for free at
e2language.com
and then come here to your course button
in the left dashboard
inside the course you'll find all the
skills reading listening
writing speaking practice tests and over
here is the vocabulary section
click on that we have a general and
academic vocab
section and here are the topic toolkits
click on this and you'll find all 20
here
when you click on the toolkit it will
download
immediately for you each toolkit has
five pages and includes essay topics
here
speaking questions all around the same
theme
part one part two part three here's the
resource section where you can click on
links to
read listen or watch something on this
topic of animals
we have a sample essay in every toolkit
and
pages 4 and 5 are the vocab list
so notice you get the word or phrase
meaning this is a space for you to write
the translation into your language
here are the related words an example
sentence and this is where you should
write your own example as well
so each toolkit has the same resources
but of course a different theme
so that's what they look like that's
where they live
how can the students how can the
students use them
what's what would you recommend graham
well i i get questions all the time in
live classes and tutorials saying you
know
i how do i deal with my shortage of
vocabulary
so um i think one of the ways in which
the toolkits really helps you with this
is because you get to see and learn
words in context and not only that we
deal with
word families too so on this last page
where you've got your
20 plus vocabulary items you've also got
lots of other words and phrases
that those words are used in
and for me it's essential when you're
learning vocabulary
to a know well where and when can i use
this word
and secondly what other words often go
with it
we call them collocations because so
many errors i find in speaking in
writing
are because the student has found that
word maybe translated it from their
first language
but doesn't really know how to use it
properly
so that's really i think where our
resource is very helpful
yeah and so in the tutorials they're
definitely handy a good little homework
tool for the students and in the live
classes that i teach i often
will ask them to download it before the
class or get ready for next week's class
like
this week for instance our task two
lessons were
based around the theme of the media so
everybody was able to
download that toolkit read a couple of
articles before class
and the difference when when they've
done that the difference between
you know they've never thought about
this topic recently or maybe never
thought about it in english
and then i've read something and watched
the video 20 minutes before class like
the richness of the
cabin ideas is yeah it's really that's a
great idea
yeah i should do that for my speaking
classes on on friday
yeah yeah yeah it's definitely because
we always have a theme in those speaking
classes about health or
education they're definitely going to
tie into those toolkits
that's fantastic wow that's good so it
really kind of all links into
the other things that we're doing on e2
language and as you said if
students can take a bit of time and
often it's enjoyable
watching something listening to
something then you're better prepared
for the lesson
and you know we're doing more and more
now on our live
classes of bringing students into the
live class to speak
live so that would actually help people
there to
you know to give a have a really good go
at answering a question for example
yeah they can certainly prepare
beforehand if they know what's
what's coming up as well that's right
yeah
there we go right for people who have
never used the toolkit not really sure
where to start we thought we'd give them
a little
challenge um and so people watching on
youtube will give them an opportunity to
try or to have a look at our toolkits we
have one that's available for free
and i'll show you where to find it on
the website and then we're also going to
issue you
a challenge and we want you to
contribute into the comment box below so
let me first of all
show you how to sign up and find the
tool kit
uh is that what i'm gonna do anyway
something like that
yeah that's okay no that's good can i
just say him about a challenge
i don't i don't usually do anything
unless i got a challenge or a deadline
so i think it's a really good idea so
you know respond to it and try it out
you know
you never know and you'll have fun to it
you'll learn something and you know give
it a go
yeah what else are you going to do what
exactly
active audience we call them yeah
let's talk about our topic toolkit
challenge the first one ever
uh the ielts topic toolkit challenge
number one first of all download
topic toolkit one from your ielts course
at e2 language you can find it
here firstly create a free account or
log in to your account at e2language.com
click on your course on the left go to
the vocabulary section the toolkit
section
and simply click topic toolkit number
one to download
number two is click on the first reading
in the resource section
that's here so read through the article
you'll find it's quite a strong opinion
piece on the topic of zoos
so your challenge the actual challenge
is to comment below this video and tell
us
do you agree with the writer and why
or why not great and look and don't just
watch it have a look at the vocabulary
which is the page
the next page the last page in each
topic toolkit
see how many of the words there you can
use
in your comments in your expressing your
views
right because i mean that's a really
good example of how you watch something
you think about it
you say now i want to say something
about it oh oh and here's some words i
can use so
give that a go yeah bonus points if you
can use some impressive vocabulary
absolutely
well thank you so much for joining me
graeme and the students or people
watching who want to have a tutorial
with you how do they go about that
well they don't dispel my name first and
it's g r
a e m e and that's just
it's a i think it's a lovely name but
anyway graham so what you have to do
is you have to get in touch with student
services is that what we call it student
serve anyway student help
so that's help at e2language.com help
e2language.com and say i'd like to book
in a tutorial
with graham and i'd be delightful to
meet you
and also you know you can tell me about
all the experiences of having
responded to the animal challenge
and done something on youtube so we'll
have something else to talk about
and we can also find you in our e2 ielts
live classes which ones are you teaching
at the moment
at the moment i do the listing and the
speaking which is on
friday friday afternoon or evening
melbourne time
and then i'm doing the academic task one
ielts class on a saturday
afternoon so be lovely to see you there
it would be great and look we we've had
such great fun we've had classes have
been up
for some reason or other we're getting
102 in most classes which is quite
strange
but it's just awesome having so many
people all together
and who knew actually one could actually
be fun
isn't that interesting yeah well i have
fun anyway and i think most people do as
well you know i think it's fun to
maybe we're a bit biased yes yes exactly
well quite something to do happily and i
can't think
better to get online with a lot of
people who are
you know trying to do something and get
somewhere and you know hopefully this is
helping them
yeah absolutely so for access to all of
our
live classes and to have tutorials
one-on-one tutorials with our wonderful
teachers teachers just like graham
make sure you sign up at e2language.com
and we will see you
in a live class and talk about topic
toolkits with you
very soon thank you so much graeme
that's great that was fun and lovely to
talk to all of you and yeah
so see you in a class very soon and good
luck with everything
[Music]